We then sought to see if a more refined configuration of XGBoost at the level of its hyperparameters, coupled with a selection of explanatory variables, would allow us to obtain even better results. We first ranked the explanatory variables according to their importance, using an ensemble method. We assigned a point to each explanatory variable each time it was in the top 100 variables for the following approaches: correlation coefficient (in absolute value), linear regression, extra trees [22], XGBoost, LightGBM (each time their feature importance) and recursive feature elimination (RFE) for the Lasso. We then proceeded to a sequential feature selection, starting from the most frequently cited variables in the various selection methods above, and advancing towards the less cited variables.

Not surprisingly, the three variables that were consistently present in all 6 selection approaches were time, patient-1 (number of visits in the past hour) and in-progress (visits not completed in the past hour). Other variables of importance included nearby history variables (patient-2 and patient-3, due to the inertia of the time series) and distant history variables (patient-167, corresponding to the number of visits on the same day, at the same time, one week ago), to exploit daily and weekly seasonality. In the same way, other calendar variables were kept: the year, which records the annual increase in visits (general upward trend), the day of the week, distinguishing for example the week from the weekend, as well as some meteorological variables (temperature, humidity...) in Metz.

For each new variable tested, we performed multiple regressions with XGBoost, doing a grid search between 2 and 30 to set the maximum tree depth hyperparameter, as well as a cross-validation for each value of the hyperparameter in order to have more trustworthy scores. Each time a new variable improved the MAE score, it was added to the list of retained variables, and we started again with the first most cited variable not yet retained. As, from the eighth variable onwards, the progression on the test set started to be only weakly significant, we interrupted this sequential feature selection, in order to avoid falling into the trap of overfitting.

This computational approach allowed us to improve the score at the margin, reaching a MAE of 2.63 for an RMSE of 3.51 after cross-validation, using only 7 explanatory variables and for a maximum depth of 5, thus achieving the best compromise between the complexity of the system and its predictive power, a guarantee of a good generalization The curve in Figure 6 shows a comparison between the actual number of emergency room visits and the predicted number. As can be seen, the curves are close enough to validate the feasibility and interest of a predictive approach.